NAME: Zhengtong Liu
EMAIL: ericliu2023@g.ucla.edu
ID: 505375562

lab1b-client.c
    this is the source file of the client program; it supports options
    including:
        --port=PORT_NUM ... (mandatory option) specifies the port number
    of the server to connect to
        --log=FILE_NAME ... maintains a record of data sent over the socket;
    pre-decompressed incoming data or post-compressed outgoing data if --compress
    option is specified
        --compress ... enable compression of data sending to the server and
        decompression of data receiving from the server

    the behavior of lab1b-client program looks like a shell terminal, and it
    achieves this through connecting to a server program that runs a shell via
    socket

lab1b-server.c
    this is the source file of the server program; it supports options
    including:
        --port=PORT_NUM ... (mandatory option) specifies the port number
    of this server that will connect to a client
        --compress ... enable compression of data sending to the client and
        decompression of data receiving from the client

    the lab1b-server program connects and receive inputs from a client program;
    the server program then sends the processed input to shell, which is achieved
    through fork and pipe

Makefile
    the targets of the Makefile includes:
        default ... compiles lab1b-client.c and lab1b-server.c
    to executables lab1b-client and lab1b-server, respectively

        lab1b-client ... compiles lab1b-client.c to lab1b-client;
    the gcc option flags includes -Og (for optimization), 
    -g3 (for debugging), -Wall -Wextra (for debugging), 
    -lz (dynamic link to zlib) and -o (write the output to lab1b-client)

        lab1b-server ... compiles lab1b-server.c to lab1b-server;
    the gcc option flags are the same as above

        clean ... clean the files created be Makefile

        dist ... create the tarball to be submitted

To test my programs, I opened two terminal windows and start the server 
program on one terminal, and then start the client program on the other;
then I tried some valid or invalid shell commands to see the outputs. I
also tried the different options for the client and server program. The 
test script also helps a lot, thanks!
