NAME: Zhengtong Liu
EMAIL: ericliu2023@g.ucla.edu
ID: 505375562

lab0.c:
    A C source code file that implements the program in lab0 spec.
    Specifically, the program copies its standard input to its 
    standard output. The normal exit code is 0.


    Several optional options when execute this program using command 
    line argument:

    --input=filename ... use the specific file as stdin
    If unable to open the input file, exit with return code of 2.

    --output=filename ... create the specific file and use it as stdout
    If unable to create the output file or cannot open the output file,
    exit with return code of 3.

    --segfault ... force a segmentation fault.

    --catch ... catch the segmentation fault and log an error message.
    Exit with a return code of 4 if a segmentation fault is caught.

Makefile:
    my Makefile supports the following targets:

    default ... the same as lab0.

    lab0 ... compile the program  with the -Wall and -Wextra options, 
    also with -Og for optimization and -g3 for gdb debug.

    clean ... delete all files created by the Makefile, e.g.
    lab0 executable, .o files, .tar.gz tarball, etc.

    check ... runs a smoke-test on whether the basic requirements
    are met or not and reports success or failure.

    dist ... build the tarball to be submitted.

backtrace.png:
    showing a segfault and associated stack-trace

breakpoint.png:
    showing a breakpoint and variable inspection

script.sh:
    the bash file that includes the smoke tests,
    test cases are to:

        (1) check for invalid arguments and inspect
    the exit code.

        (2) check for the default option, i.e. copy
    from stdin to stdout and inspect the exit code.

        (3) check for the input and output options,
    i.e. invoke the --input and --output options, 
    compare the contents of input and output and 
    see whether the program is exited normally.

        (4) check for the segfault and catch options,
    i.e. invoke the --segfault and --catch options,
    and inspect the exit code.

        (5) check for two other exit codes: 2 and 3,
    give the --input option an filename that does not
    exist, inspect the exit code. Close the write permission
    of the output file, which is the argument for --output,
    inspect the exit code.