NAME: Zhengtong Liu
EMAIL: ericliu2023@g.ucla.edu
ID: 505375562

QUESTION 2.1.1 - causing conflicts:

    When the number of iterations is small enough, it is likely that the
thread can be executed within one time slice without being interrupted. 
Therefore, the race condition is less likely to happen, and so the program
seldom fail. 
    However, as the number of iterations is large enough, one thread cannot
be executed entirely without being interrupted within a single time slice. 
Therefore, the race conditions among different threads may happen, and errors
would occur. 
    For the reasons above, it would take many iterations before errors can be seen,
and a significantly small number of iterations seldom fail.


QUESTION 2.1.2 - cost of yielding:

    Note that the if --yield option is specified, the opt_yield flag would be set and 
sched_yield() function is called in the critical section. Particularly, this would cause
the thread to relinquish the CPU and OS would do context switch to swap in another thread to
execute. 
    Therefore, additional context switches due to the call to sched_yield() would
actually add overhead to the executation of the whole program and cause it to run much 
slower. (Note that context switches can be very expensive)
    The additional time goes towards the additional context switches between threads. 
    Therefore, it is not possible to get valid per-operation timings if we are using the --yield 
option, as the wasted additional time is counted in the total time, and as we cannot separate 
the wasted additional time from the actual operation time, we cannot get the average operation 
time, or the valid per-operation timings. In other words, we cannot accurately calculate the
time wasted by the additional context switches and subtract it from the total time.


QUESTION 2.1.3 - measurement errors:

    As the number of iterations goes up, the time cost by creating new threads (which is fixed for each thread) 
spread out over iterations, so the average cost per operations drop with increasing iterations. 
    From the plot, we see that the rate of change of the cost per operation decreases as
the iterations increases. That is to say, the cost per operation gets more and more stable
and does not change much as the number of iterations gets large enough. 
    The "optimal" number of iterations, would be the threshold above which the cost per operation
does not change much. (and the "correct" cost is its corresponding cost per operation)


QUESTION 2.1.4 - costs of serialization:

    For low numbers of threads, fewer threads would have the potential to run into the race conditions 
and therefore wait for the lock to be unlocked by other threads, so the contention for a lock among different 
threads is low. Therefore, the lock can be transfered between different threads (or retrieved by a new thread)
pretty quickly. The small overhead means all options perform similarly and all perform pretty well.
    However, as the number of threads increases, the overhead is larger as there is high contention of a
lock among different threads. Therefore, some thread may need to yield, or keep spinning to wait for the lock
to be released. This waiting time is a large overhead, which causes the operations to slow down as the number of
threads rises. 


QUESTION 2.2.1 - scalability of Mutex

    The variation in time per mutex-protected operation vs the number of threads in Part-1 (adds) seems to be 
larger than that in Part-2 (sorted lists). One possible explanation is that the threads in Part-2
would stay locked for a longer of time (since the operations for the sorted list cost more time than simple addition),
there would be fewer context switches and thus less overhead for Part-2. Thus, the time per operation would
not grow so fast as the number of threads grows for Part-2.
    Note that the shape of the curve for Part-1 (adds) and Part-2 (sorted lists) is both increasing. 
Since there are more threads, the contention of a lock would be higher and the overhead caused by the high 
contention of a lock would increases the time per operation. 
    While the rate of increase decreases as the number of iterations increases for the curve in Part-1 (adds),
the rate of increase does not change much for that for Part-2 (sorted lists). One possible explanation 
is that the overhead caused by the high contention of a lock would get stable as the number of iterations 
increases in Part-1. However, as explained in this first part, the threads would stay locked for a longer 
time in Part-2 (sorted list) and the there is less overhead, so the rate of change is nearly constant,
meaning the time per operation increases linearly with the number of threads. 


QUESTION 2.2.2 - scalability of spin locks

    There is more variation in time per protected operation (vs the number of threads) for 
list operations protected Spin locks that Mutex lock. 
In fact, this is more evident in the curve for the addition test. Note that 
the Spin lock would cost less time than (or nearly the same with) the Mutex lock
when the number of threads is small, but the Mutex lock would cost less time 
than Spin lock as the number of threads rises. For the explanation part,
note the Spin lock would allow one thread to keep spining, i.e. keep 
waiting for the lock to be released, therefore wasting a lot of CPU time doing nothing but
wait. However, Mutex lock would not keep a thread spinning but let it yield, 
which would save the CPU to execute valid operations. Therefore, the Mutex lock would
cost less time as the number of threads increases.


Files:

lab2_add.c ... a C program that implements and tests a shared variable add function, implements 
    the specified command line options, and produces the specified output statistics.
        
        specified command line options: [--threads=th_num --iterations=it_num --yield]

lab2_list.c ... a C program that implements the specified command line options and produces 
    the specified output statistics.

        specified command line options: [--threads=th_num --iterations=it_num --yield=[idl] --sync=[ms]]

SortedList.h ... a header file (supplied by us) describing the interfaces for linked list operations.

SortedList.c ... a C module that implements insert, delete, lookup, and length methods for a sorted doubly 
    linked list (described in the provided header file, including correct placement of yield calls).

lab2_add.csv and lab2_list.csv ... containing all the results for Part-1 and Part-2 tests, respectively.

lab2_add.gp and lab2_list.gp ... sample data reduction scripts provided in the spec.

Makefile
    build ... (default target) compile all programs (with the -Wall and -Wextra options).

    tests ... run all (over 200) specified test cases to generate results in CSV files. Note 
        that the lab2_list program is expected to fail when running multiple threads without synchronization. 

    graphs ... use gnuplot(1) and the supplied data reduction scripts to generate the required graphs

    dist ... create the deliverable tarball

    clean ... delete all programs and output created by the Makefile

Graphs
    Part-1:

    lab2_add-1.png ... threads and iterations required to generate a failure (with and without yields).
    lab2_add-2.png ... average time per operation with and without yields.
    lab2_add-3.png ... average time per (single threaded) operation vs. the number of iterations.
    lab2_add-4.png ... threads and iterations that can run successfully with yields under 
        each of the synchronization options.
    lab2_add-5.png ... average time per (protected) operation vs. the number of threads.

    Part-2:

    lab2_list-1.png ... average time per (single threaded) unprotected operation vs. 
        number of iterations (illustrating the correction of the per-operation cost for the list length).
    lab2_list-2.png ... threads and iterations required to generate a failure (with and without yields).
    lab2_list-3.png ... iterations that can run (protected) without failure.
    lab2_list-4.png ... (length-adjusted) cost per operation vs the number of threads for the various synchronization options.